DOCS-10522 Rewrite "Reviewing API Alerts" document (#348)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/using-api-alerts.adoc

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: alerts, api, api alerts

Anypoint Platform alerts you about request behavior, performance issues, actions related to client application contracts, and runtime events. The platform supports three types of alerts: API alerts, contracts alerts, and runtime alerts. API alerts and contracts alerts are managed by Anypoint API Manager (API Manager). Runtime alerts are managed by Anypoint Runtime Manager (Runtime Manager).

== API Alerts
 

> Add and configure API alerts that flag unusual API behavior. Examples include:

Reviewer: I am making this suggestion only because I "tripped" over "add and configure" leading to "examples" (rather than "behavior" leading to "examples).
But I realize that this just might be Morning Brain. Your choice!
```suggestion
Add and configure API alerts that flag unusual API behavior, such as:
```

Author: Fixed

> * The response time of an API exceeds 60 seconds.

Reviewer: Also, I kind of want the examples to be things rather than sentences;
```suggestion
* An API response time over 60 seconds
```
Again, your decision, totally.

Author: Fixed

> * The number of API requests in 30 seconds is greater than 1000. 

Reviewer: As above, 
```suggestion
* More than 1000 API requests in 30 seconds
```

Author: Fixed

See xref:add-api-alert-task.adoc[Adding an API Alert].

API Manager enables you to add the following API alerts to an API instance:

* *Policy Violation*
+
An infraction of one or more policies governing the API occurs.

* *Request Count*
+
Users request access to the API more times than allowed in a specified interval of time.
+

> Specify time interval values within the range 1 - 999999999. To prevent data bursts, intervals are implemented as sliding windows instead of as absolute minute boundaries. See https://www.techopedia.com/definition/869/sliding-window[Sliding Windows].

Reviewer: GLOBALLY for ranges, to omit any confusion, replace the "-" symbol with "to" or "through" to clarify whether the second value is included.
In fact..."between" and "within the range" do not explicitly include the first number, either. It might be best to use wording like "values from x to[or through] y."

Author: Fixed

* *Response Code*
+
The API returns one of these HTTP codes upon receiving a request: 400, 401, 403, 404, 408, 500, 502, or 503.

* *Response Time*
+
The response time of the API exceeds a specified timeout period. 

> API alerts are triggered only when states change. though the first occurrence of a state change may be undetected due to newly created alerts not having defined states.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API alerts are triggered only when states change, although the first occurrence of a state change might be undetected due to newly created alerts not having defined states.
```

Author: Fixed

> When configuring an API alert, you select Business Group users who will receive email notifications about the alert. Notifications include information about events that trigger alerts as specified by severity level. Users receive the following:

Reviewer: Just to avoid future tense...:
```suggestion
When configuring an API alert, you select Business Group users to receive email notifications about the alert. Notifications include information about events that trigger alerts as specified by severity level. Users receive the following:
```

Author: Fixed

> * One email describes the alert. For example:

Reviewer: Try to avoid using "For example:" alone. 
Alternatives include simply ending the previous statement with a colon:
"One email describes the alert:"
or including "for example" in that statement:
"One email describes the alert, for example:"
I tend to the former, just because, to me, ":" = look at what directly follows this text as an extension of it.

Author: Fixed

+
`Your API Version, jsonplaceholderapi - 1.0.development, is no longer in an alert state. The number of policy violations was not greater than 1 in the last 1 consecutive periods of 1 minutes.`

> After an alert is triggered, API Manager sends the first set of two notification emails, and stops listening for alerts until the next alert period begins. This technique prevents repetitive notification emails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After an alert is triggered, API Manager sends the first set of two notification emails and stops listening for alerts until the next alert period begins. This technique prevents repetitive notification emails.
```
"repetitive" > "repeated"? "duplicate"? "multiple duplicate"?

Author: Fixed

== Contracts Alerts

> API Manager automatically notifies users when actions related to contracts occur. For instance, when a client application requests access to an API instance, API Manager sends a notification indicating that the request access is pending (or that the request access has been auto-approved, depending on the configuration).

Reviewer 2: Optional or save for a later revision: 2nd sentence could be easier to read if shorter or structured differently. If "pending" and "auto-approved" are the only two possible statuses, you could make a bullet list. Maybe you could simplify the details in the example? Something like 

"...sends a notification with the status of the access request."

Author: Cool, good suggestion. I split up that long sentence. Thanks!

> API Manager automatically notifies users when actions related to contracts occur. For instance, when a client application requests access to an API instance, API Manager sends a notification with the status of the request. Depending on the configuration, status may indicate that the request is pending manual approval, or it may indicate that the request has been auto-approved.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY replace "may" with wording that does not indicate permission. This is typically "might," although we try to avoid modal verbs (see style guide).

Author: Fixed

> | User will be notified that a contract tier change is pending review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User is notified that a contract tier change is pending review.
```

Author: Fixed
